# archimedes-legacy
The good old archimedes (cleaned up).


## History

First lines of code were implemented while baby sitting in March 2004 (if I remember right). Since these times Archimedes has grown, shrunk and grown again for several times. Different idea of generating code and database update scripts were implemented, changed and rejected and added again.

Which was constantly in use were the UI which is very similar to the first approach, perhaps a little bit more colored, and the interface to link different code generators to the data model.

The last major changes were beginning to add a code generator for Java REST server directly to Archimedes and to change the database update scripting from pure SQL to a more variable interface based procedure whose first implementation creates Liquibase scripts.


## Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven 3.5
* Project "dm-comp" from github "Greifentor" in the same super folder than this project.

Ensure that line endings will not be changed while checking out the projects. That could affect the tests.


### Project structure

* [your work-space folder]
* - archimedes-legacy
* - dm-comp


## Build

* Type `mvn clean install` in a shell.
* Tests should be skipped by passing `-Dmaven.test.skip=true` to the shell call above (it's momentarily a project used by the author only: so it should always be compile clean, but could have ocasionally problems with running the tests!).


## Start

Call `start` script for your operation system.

To change the JVM to another as is configured as default, create a file named `java-engine-path.bat` and type 
something like:
```
SET PATH=C:\JVMs\java11\bin;%PATH%
```

into the file.

This working with Window only in the moment.


## Design Decisions

### Why Doesn't It Generate to the Target Folder?

The code generated by Archimedes code factories will cover (at the end of the development) maybe 90%+ of the case which 
will occur in the daily business. To have an easy access on the generated code and be able to do changes in this code 
where ever it is necessary, this decision was made (which is based on experiences of many years working with this pattern
of code generation). But nevertheless, this feature should be used with discernment, because it lowers the rate of 
generated code which will raise change efforts.


## Specials

### mySQL and mariaDB

Working with ```mySQL``` or ```mariaDB``` requires to set the SCHEMA_NAME and to fill the 'Schema Name' field with
the same name in all dialogs which act with the database.


## News

Will be provided since version 2.1.1 is released.


## Open Ideas

* Read in Liquibase via a memory database (Liquibase -> memory database -> JDBC -> Archimedes model).


## Code Factories

### Included Code Factories

[Common Functionallity](./legacy-core/src/main/java/archimedes/codegenerators/README.md)

[Persistence JPA](./legacy-core/src/main/java/archimedes/codegenerators/persistence/jpa/README.md)

[Service](./legacy-core/src/main/java/archimedes/codegenerators/service/README.md)

### Templates

Each Archimedes Code Factory works with Velocity templates. These are found in the sub folders of 
"archimedes-legacy/legacy-core/src/main/resources/templates". This may be configured to another path by property
"CodeFactory.templates.path". The folder name for each code factory is to configure by property 
"{CodeFactorySimpleClassName}.templates.folder" (e. g. "RESTControllerCodeFactory.templates.folder"). The default 
values of the configurations should work in standard cases.


## Compare Data Models

Select "Export / Explore" (Export / Untersuchen) for each data model to compare with options

|Option|Description|
|TO_UPPER_CASE|TODO|
|SUPPRESS_LENGTH|TODO|
|FK_BY_COLUMNNAME|TODO|

Save the results and compare the files via a diff tool.


## Model Checkers

Archimedes has a set of model checkers which are able to create the info, 
warning and error messages in the right lower corner of the application 
window.

There are three ways to get messages in this label (and dialog which opens
if you double click the label).

### Built-In Model Checkers

There is a set of built in model checkers which are activated automatically
for any data model after starting the application. This checker do checks on 
the data model as shown below:

* Check for domains which are not used (WARNING).
* Check for columns which have no domain assignment (ERROR).
* Check for potential foreign key columns (WARNING).
* Check for tables which does not have a primary key attribute (WARNING). 

It also starts the model checker which processes a Java script (see below
"Model Checker By Script").


#### Check for Potential Foreign Keys

This checker looks up the all tables for potential foreign key column. These are columns starting or ending with with
``id``. In case of finding such a column which is not referencing a table respectively the correct table in strict mode,
the model checker create a warning.

| Option Name | To Place In | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| POTENTIAL_FK_WARNING_MODE | MODEL | Sets the passed mode (``STRICT`` or ``WEAK``) for the whole model. |
| POTENTIAL_FK_WARNING_MODE | TABLE | Sets the passed mode (``STRICT`` or ``WEAK``) for specific table. This overrides the mode set for the model. |
| SUPPRESS_POTENTIAL_FK_WARNING | COLUMN | Suppresses any check by the model checker for these column. |

In ``STRICT`` mode the column name have to be the referenced table name with ``id`` prefix or suffix. In ``WEAK`` mode
it is adequate that the column is referencing any table.


### Model Checkers of Code Factories

Additionally any Code Factory implementation could provide its own model 
checker implementations. This will be described in the documentation of the 
code factories.


### Model Checker by Script

Any data model could have a Java script in its configuration which is able
to produce model checker messages. This script get four parameters which 
can be used inside the script:

* **guiBundle** - A class with GUI information.
* **messages** - An empty list of ModelCheckerMessage object. This should be filled by the script.
* **model** - An access to the data model.
* **table** - A list of all table of the data model (for convenience).

You find a senseless example script below:
```java
load("nashorn:mozilla_compat.js");
importPackage(Packages.archimedes.acf.checker);
importPackage(Packages.corentx.dates);
importPackage(java.lang);

System.out.println("Scripted Model Checker Started ...");

for (i = 0, leni = tables.size(); i < leni; i++) {
    messages.add(new ModelCheckerMessage(ModelCheckerMessage.Level.INFO, guiBundle.getResourceText("Table checked: {0}", tables.get(i).getName())));
}

System.out.println("Scripted Model Checker Finished.");
```

This script will print the names of any table in the data model to the console.


## Exporter

[Liquibase Script](./legacy-core/src/main/java/archimedes/legacy/exporter/README.md)
